Digital and analog gene circuits for biotechnology notes 
--------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction 
Biotechnology has benefited from tools developed by molecular biology to introduce 
heterologous pathways into microbes. However to ensure that the microbes have all the necessary 
pathways to producing a chemical is often not for any practical applications except the most
specific such as chemical engineering. Rather a dynamic approach is needed so that the cell
can react to different environmental conditions such as a increase in concentrations of 
a particular enzyme...etcera, which often limits production of these chemicals. There is 
also the problem of biological bottlenecks created by feedback enzyme inhibitor pathways. 

- Most cells are static and cannot interact with their environment dynamically 
- Metabolic pathway production of chemicals are often limited due to biological bottlenecks

The problem can thus be rephrase as how do we engineer microbes with these properties and 
what is we could ? Welcome to the world of synthetic gene circuits, the idea behind it 
is to optimise the gene regulation of the genes responsible for producing the desired enzymes
and to make them dynamically responsive to changes in the environment. We could thus ensure
optimal production of chemicals by microbes in multiple environments or uncontrollable 
environments like in large scale bioreactors. 

Tools for optimisation 
- codon optimization
- tuning promoters 
- ribosome binding sites (RBSs) 
- manipulating intergenic regions knockouts and knockdowns . 

However in these notes we will focus on the later dynamic behaviour in cells to multiple
environmental conditions. 

2. Digital gene circuits 
Like digital circuits they receive an input and give a single output of either "on" or "off" 
states which could represent the production of a chemical or not ...etcera. 
2.1 Digital memory 

2.2 Digital computation 
2.3 Multi-input digital logic 

3. Analog circuits 
3.1 Analog circuits 
3.2 Multi-input analog circuits 
3.3 Digital-to-analog circuits 
 